You don't have a copy? I don't have a polished copy
with me, no. Well, I can read this with you if you
wish. Let me come around the other side of the desk
over there. Do you have a table around here
somewhere? No, I don't have a good table. I'll tell
you what I can do, though, is move this typewriter
off and wheel this around. Will that work? If I have
no table, okay. We could go over to the library, I
suppose. That's all right.
Well, your director, you need something like a
table director. Whatever the archivist's name
is. I'm in charge of moving.
Well, the first is on page seven. Okay.
Here it is. That's misspelled. It's K-U.
K-U-R-T-H. Is it misspelled consistently
throughout? No, other places it's spelled
correctly. Okay. I'll leave this list with you in
this copy. So if you can use this and return it to me
at your convenience. Okay. Now the next is 17.
Okay.
I think that's redundant. Perhaps. Scholarly
intellectuals. Yeah. I think so. Okay. Okay.
Which culminated in amassing?
The Shelter Belt Project or the New Deal. Some of
the other stuff is obvious, but...
Of course, I don't know where you got that
information that those early paintings
contributed to the establishment of the Shelter
Building.
It mostly was the thoughts of Emmons on that. This
particular guy I was looking at, he thought that
there was, oh, a growing, almost a philosophy.
tree planting on the Great Plains, and these
various experiments and attempts, and it kind of
snowballed and grew into the Shelter Belt Project
when the New Deal was looking around for things to
do. Well, to give you some background on that, the
person who really put this idea across to, maybe
not Roosevelt, but whoever was running the
program was a man by the name of Rafael Zon, Z-O-N,
who was at that time director of Lake States Forest
Experiment Station and was a native Russian. And
they had done some of this work in Russia. So I just
wonder whether you're giving, you're
exaggerating the importance of this individual.
However, all this, you might be laying yourself
open to some sniping if you left it just that way.
But you can make a note, if you wish, about how zone
tied into this idea, rather than, in other words, I
think you're attributing too much of what was done
in the early period here in Texas, and the ideas
about planning on the Great Plains.
I don't know. I think I could back that up because of
the writings that I have of those men.
Jones was not particularly interested in the
book. No, you interrupt a moment. OK. Can you tie
that into the Shelterville book? It's a
continuation of an idea. of these plantings on the
Great Plains. It was a continuation of this. They
were warped into thinking that they could control
climate with these plants. Of course, they
couldn't. They might modify some wind on a
particular area, but they couldn't. But they
believed they could. Well, it's well
demonstrated that the shelter belts will control
wind velocity and
When erosion. Yeah, sure. There's no question
about that. But these men, from reading their
writings at the time, they really thought they
could make it rain. Yeah, I got that. I question
that. All I'm doing is, the interpretation I got
out of that is that this had culminated in the
creation of a shelter. I question. Okay. Let's go
on. You can make your own decision. Okay, fine.
Next is 20. All righty, sir. Well, let me check. Oh.
Yeah. Let's see.
Uh... I think a better word would be there to say
that nearly, it's not awkward, but I don't convey
my idea, unnavigable. I know what you're saying.
Okay. Next page is 26.
Why not just say made a survey? Use one word instead
of two words here.
Well,
let's
see what they don't have in mind there.
Oh yes, yes. Jones believed that the forestry
practices he had observed in Germany to the area
were applicable.
There's a word left out or something.
I can check that on the master, which is really my
rough draft.
I see you're finding stuff that even Henry and the
people didn't find. Well, I don't think you read
about that. No, they probably didn't. Okay.
I have a hang-up on this, so forgive me if I say it. Go
ahead. And that is that I think this word
professional these days is overused even as
applied to foresters.
But I prefer the word graduate rather than
professional. Either a forester is a graduate
forester or he isn't.
And if you want to use professional, it's up to you.
Talk about a professional plumber and a
professional this and that. Academically
trained? Well, why not just use Forrester? Okay.
Concept
of
graduate. Okay. Okay. Now on page 62.
I say threatening to what?
Threatening
to the…
To the lumbermen. To the lumbermen? Yeah, that's
what I was saying in a way. In a way fire protection
was really The issue of fire protection was of no
threat to them, whereas an issue of required
reforestation would have been a threat. Well, you
know what you mean. Yeah, I know, but you don't and
the reader doesn't. No, that's right.
Threatening to what, or in what way? In other
words, it needs a little rewarding, reshuffling.
Yep, you're right. Page 131.
Now,
on that, somehow, maybe I'm misguided in this,
it's my opinion, but when you refer to a
legislative body, as the legislature, I wonder
whether it shouldn't be treated as a proper noun. I
don't know. We had some argument on that, and what
we did is find it both ways in the literature. Oh?
Yeah. Okay. And it depends upon what time you look
at the literature. You get, you know, at certain
points of time, they do it all one way, and then they
change. Right now, using any kind of style manual
gets you so confused because of the changes that
are going on in the language. People are not
capitalizing things they used to capitalize. But
an editor would certainly force it one way or
another forever.
Well, what I have in mind there is it's either
forest land or it's agricultural land.
maybe instead of using valuable there, a better
word would be productive. In other words, it's
more productive for timber economically than it
is for agricultural purposes, crop purposes.
Productive forest land, marginal farm land.
Yeah. It could be highly productive forest land
would still be marginally useful for crops. Yeah.
Of course, from what I can read of what's grown in
East Texas, much of that land over there is not good
for a whole lot except trees. Right. It's marginal
or sub-marginal for cropping. Except for what,
some truck crops will grow fairly well if
intensely handled? Well, here again, we get into
this matter of soil characteristics. And in a few
isolated areas within the Piney Woods area, there
are soils that can be productive for specific
crops. Taking the belt as a broad area, it's
marginal at best. I would have thought so. So
that's the intent there. Now that's what, 103?
106.
The use of the word cost there seems to me a bit
awkward.
Wouldn't it be better to say Finance?
There's something wrong with that. It's not just a
word. It's something that's either... I'm trying
to think what it might be. Well, I'll turn this...
It's an awkward... That's not supposed to be
there. No? No, because I don't... That's not my
word. I would not have said cost of movement to
Forrester.
I'll just have to check it on the manuscript and see
if there's a typo and there's something. I can't
figure out what that might be. Okay. Okay. 108.
108.
Okay. Lumberlands Association of Texas.
Isn't it, is that the correct name? It was at that
time. It was? Lumberman's Association of Texas?
At least that's what it's referred to in the
documents I have. My impression was that the name
of the organization, it's a retailer's outfit.
Yeah. But that's a point. I don't think you
mentioned in there that this is essentially a
retailer's organization.
I think I did later. Oh. But it might not hurt to, if I
did before,
And it's not a manufacturer's association.
Okay. 111.
There again we get into this matter of proper
names. It is not capitalized as yet because the
office doesn't exist at this point. That was the
ruling I got on this earlier, that we're talking
about something in the future and not an
established office. Now, when it becomes state
forestry, it has to... Why not do it this way, then?
The office will create the position of...
State Forest Administrator or something like
that. That way you can get away from this
controversy where it should be uppercase or
lowercase. Okay. In other words, a potential
title. What I normally would do if this went to a
publisher is that at least they have an editorial
staff that knows for sure how they're going to do
the book. Okay. All right. Well, let's see, 116.
The prize. 123.
What
service committee? That's what it's called.
That's their title that's on the books itself and
in the description of the papers. Service
Committee is what it is, it's a meeting the
department is. Oh. That they had at one time. I'm
not sure that the Forest Service still does it or
not, but they got together at regular intervals,
very similar to your meetings, and they sat down
and talked about what was and what wasn't.
Well,
I suppose at one time it may have been known as the
Forest Service Committee, made up of Forest
Service department heads, and then shortened to
the Service Committee. 146
isn't it?
Unless
you
didn't like this sentence. You already said it.
OK. 157. There's
an L in there. It's dial, D-I-A-L.
OK. And 192. You
have 192. Oh, I thought you said 182. Oh, I'm sorry.
There we go.
Oh, yeah, yeah. What I have in mind there, and this
is where I'll start to point out, if you will look at
the masthead of these newspapers today, it's the
Dallas Morning News, it's the Houston Post, it's
the Wall Street Journal, etc. I know what you're
saying. So you'd have to check up on that to see
whether the word Dallas should be underlined too
or not. Something funny about this because I know
what's happening here. I know how historians get
around this. As you look at this over time, the mast
changes. It does? From 1950, if you look at a 1915
paper to today, you get a variation in the way they
did the masthead. Historians get around this by
going back in the bibliography and saying, Dallas
Morning News, so-and-so to so-and-so, title
varies. Oh? And that's how they get around it.
Okay. Because it changes from time to time. But
yes, I know exactly what you're saying. Okay, all
right. That's particularly interesting. Well,
it depends on what it was at the time. I think To be
perfectly correct, I would have to go to the Dallas
Morning News for 1920 and be absolutely sure what
their masthead said on that date. Who's going to
raise the question? I don't know. 223. 223.
I
don't know what I had in mind there. Oh, yes, yes,
yes. State and federal appropriations. It's a
state appropriation, but
it's a strange thing. It's a technicality in that
the appropriation of the federal government is in
a block form for a program. And the detail then is
done administratively based on a format. I won't
go into all the intricacies there, but I assume
that you know that the federal appropriation for
this particular program went up that year also.
the total appropriation of? For the program,
state and private program.
But, now you're talking about the total
appropriation or Texas' share of it? No, I'm not
talking, I'm talking about the appropriation
at the federal level for this particular program.
Okay. You may have run across that somewhere. You
may have listed it in a tabulation somewhere. No, I
didn't. I never had listed, except maybe once when
it began, what the total appropriation was for all
states. Thereafter, I was seemingly more
concerned with Texas, and I only listed Texas's
appropriation, which may be a weakness of the
paper itself in that it does not give the total
appropriation. And this thing you talk about of
divvying up the pie may be more important, and I'm
not sure I should have left that out. It's damn
important. Or used to be. It's not as important now
anymore. But you don't read much about that. No,
no. And I have a feeling that what I missed, any kind
of documentation on that at all, of being written
down, I didn't find it in the Forest Service papers
in Washington. I didn't find any mention of it. No.
of divvying up the pie. If you were to go back to the
Texas Forest Service and talk to Bess Campbell,
she could probably tell you whether she has in the
files there
minutes of the meeting of the Association of State
Foresters, it's now known as the National
Association of State Foresters, in which there
may be a record of this. But although it's
important, I think, but I don't know whether he'd
be justified in digging into that aspect of it. If I
could include, was it always done this way ever
since Clark, well, from Weeks and then to Clark
McNary? Do you have any idea when they did it just
this way? It seemed like to me when I read from the
original Weeks bill is that somehow the Forest
Service was instituting a formula and they were
doing it by so much sense per protected area. I
think that's right. But when the Association of
State Foresters got involved in it, I don't know.
Well, there's always been, as a matter of fact, for
many years the Association of State Foresters
wouldn't have existed if it hadn't been to divvy up
the pie. Finally, the U.S. Forest Service got so
disgusted, I think, all right, you fellas decide
for yourselves how you want to divide it up, and
we'll do it that way. Rather than to argue with you.
Yeah. Is it a one, is it a formula that they decide
that it applies to everybody? Oh, yes. In other
words? It's a formula that would apply across the
board. Okay. But this is a formula that would
apply, and there is always discussion about this.
Does the office of this organization exist in one
central spot? No.
There have always been minutes of these meetings.
Yeah, but the chances are that in the Forest
Service here, I will be lucky to even find minutes
from your period of time. because the files are
purged so frequently over there, unless you had a
blue sticker on those.
I'd have to talk to Bess. Let me try to remember to
talk to Bess about this. The reason I was wondering
is if there was a national office or... No, there is
a national secretary now, but he makes no attempt
to... If he had kept the minutes from the
beginning, I'd be in business. Yeah. And I could
spend no more than a page simply explaining, this
is how it was done. Matter of fact, if this seems to
be bragging, it's not. It's merely a mention of the
fact that Fallowato was the one that instigated
the idea that the association needed somebody to
represent it in Washington to get its feet in the
trough. So there was nobody before that. No. So
there probably, until that point, there wouldn't
be any records that existed unless somebody kept
them. Well, my memory's hazy on that, and I'll have
to check with the best and full agreement. Okay.
Okay, well that's good, but would you think a page
in there explaining that development If I could do
it in a page, that would take the bottom room. Well,
it's important in that it contributes to how much
the total expenditure is going to be made or was
made by the Texas Forest Service for fire control.
Okay. Now, I found in Washington minutes of a
meeting in the 1920s called the Clark-McNary
Conference, and evidently they had them almost
every few years. Well, they're held every year, I
think. And was it possible that this state
foresters organization grew out of those
meetings of the Clark McNair conference? Could
be. Because that's what they were talking about.
They talk about that and they talk about other
things, about the law. But I only found one of
those. That was all that was in the records. Well, I
guess maybe the state foresters used to go to
Washington on this. It has been reversed for many
years. When I entered the picture, they came to us
to attend our meetings.
But this matter of giving up the pie was usually
done by a committee of the organization.
And it was about as equitable, I guess, as you could
get it. because you had divergent interests. But I
think this point would be worthwhile devoting a
page to in your dissertation or your book. In the
book, yeah. Yeah, because it's quite important
because that was a determining factor in what
progress any given state was able to make in
protecting their forest from fire. Were
there large arguments over this? Heated
discussion? Oh, sure. Wherever there's money
there's heated discussion. Interesting to
have... Did they take detailed minutes, do you
recall, at that time? Verbatim? No. Just the
results. It's nice when you can find those
verbatim minutes because it makes interesting
stories. 223, 223, 225.
Oh yeah, I have a note here. This is a discussion of
CCC.
Yes,
this is an idea that I'm not sure, as I remember,
that you included this, and the essence of it is
that there were two classes of CCC camps, the P
camps and the F camps.
The F camps
had the camp working on
public land, national forests, national parks,
and they were not restricted in what type of labor
expenditure was permissible. In pea camps,
however, the pea camp could Expand its labor only
in connection with fire protection. That's
right. Yes, sir. Do you have that in there
somewhere? No. I just read it, and I didn't put it in
here. Oh, okay. I know, but I didn't put it in there.
I think that's... I wrote down here myself a note to
delineate between the two types of camps. I think
that's desirable. Yeah. Okay. This is another
area that I would have liked to have written much
more on, but have practically nothing to go on. And
you know, those camps publish newspapers, too.
Oh? Yeah, I know they did in Texas. They had camp
newspapers, and none of those exist. Fiddle.
Gone. Yeah. Okay. 227. All right.
Let's see here. Of course, there's...
Oh, yeah. Texas Forest Services. You all right?
It's confusing.
Okay. 241.
Oh, yeah, I'm suggesting there that there be a new
paragraph and then, in other words, this is the
first sentence of this paragraph down here. Okay,
yeah, I think you're right. It wouldn't hurt to
move it down there at all. 243. 243. It's
not Dr. Williams. He doesn't have a PhD? No. That's
the only place I believe that you used the prefix
doctorate in front of his name. Other places you
omitted it. 245. Yeah,
well, he's not a, Joe was not a firefighter. He was,
he was chief of fire control, and that's why I think
that you use... What if I did this?
Referring to that?
Does that explain something? I see. All right.
It's in the newspaper, people did that. Okay. And
that would, that would, that's what they're
talking about. If I was a newspaper man trying to
draw the way people, newspaper people write, they
would call him, oh, he's a chief firefighter, you
know, this is Texas' head firefighter or
whatever. As if he was always on the scene
directing efforts. I'm not sure he was always on
the scene directing efforts. Oh, well, there
weren't enough of him. You know, it's like he was
super smoky to bear. Okay, 246, isn't it? 246, all
right. Yeah, oh, another one. There we go. Check
that out for sure. 248s? I'll find out he got an
honorary degree somewhere else. I don't think he
ever did.
He wasn't director, he was associate director. At
that time he was? Yeah, because Don Lewis hadn't
retired yet. Don Lewis was director of the
Agricultural Experiment Station. Yeah, he was.
You're right. So he's the associate director.
Okay. It's 248... 256, isn't it? 256. Okay.
Now, he's been taught to go to doctor's degree.
Patterson?
Yeah. Okay. All right, down here.
That's just one of my prejudices,
organization-wise, that turned . As far as morale
and organization was concerned? Why don't I just
say morale was . And I think organizationally is
what you were referring to, wasn't it? Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Why not use the word organization-wise?
Okay.
I think
what
I had in mind there is that he's up here. Vice
Chancellor David Dunham was in attendance. Now,
Gib Gilchrist was there for a few minutes at the
outset. You see, you have him here, but you don't
have him mentioned up here. The committee held its
first meeting with Vice Chancellor in
attendance, implying that Gilchrist was not in
attendance, but he was for a while in the left.
I mentioned it because you bring him in down here.
OK.
Well, again,
I guess it was . . . 275.
The reason I'm asking is that I was in
Madisonville
the other
day And they were looking for Georgia material.
Well, I think it would be better just to use the word
ownership rather than ownership. All the states
that had them. I'm surprised Texas didn't have
them. I thought it was all of them. But a large
number of states that have the 1950s. Land
ownership. 1850s. 1850s. Okay. 284.
Two,
basically and basic.
Why do you need
basically? There's just words. Okay. 287. You say
you don't have that proof. There's something on
286 also. It's been done at least twice that I know
about. Yeah. It has been done at least twice. No, I
think about it three times. Well, I don't know why
we don't have it, because she might have helped her
get this everything up and good.
Oh, I don't know what this was. You told me that this
is something you want taken out. Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah. Right.
That while somewhat true, this connotes more than
actually there was. Yeah, right. Okay. One could
read something into that, but it's really not
intended. It's not there. In other words, I don't
remember reading anything. 287.
Okay. He succeeded me. He didn't replace me.
Of course, Dr. Fowler could never be your face.
That's right. You're right. That is it.
Okay. I already got that.
Turn on your own. I know that's terrible.
In
reading what you have there,
I think there's something lacking in that this
organization was set up with primarily for the
protection of improved property.
That's something I didn't pick up and didn't know.
Yeah, that's right. improved property. What is
residences? Oh, I know what you're saying. Yeah,
you're talking about... It's not just for
protection of wooded land. No, no, no, I know that.
But it could be. Yes. Yeah, but it could be. It was
used for that. I guess the reason I didn't get into
it because I'm not sure that the Forest Service
looked at it that way. You know, looking at it in a
way, perhaps the way I got it for those people over
there in that, yes, it is for small towns, but these
people can sure help. And they seem to look at...
No, no, it's not, I mean it's not urban or village,
it's rural improved property.
I will illustrate.
Shortly after I came to the job, there was a crew
working on a fire And if they failed to get it under
control, it would have burned a residence.
They gave up working on the fire and fell back just
to protect the residence. And right then, I
fussed, because you're a forest fire
organization. You aren't a residential property
organization. I think that will clinch what I have
in mind. Okay. Yeah, I understand what you're
talking about. My problem in this, I think, was not
knowing exactly the intent of the law. Who did you
talk to over there? Oh, let's see. Who did I talk to?
I talked to Bruce about some of this. What he was
saying, what I'm saying is it wasn't so much that it
was not this improved property, but they had hoped
that by stimulating this, they would get help from
these organizations. In other words, these
people could be a great help to the Texas Forest
Service. Indirectly, but they couldn't sell it on
that. Essentially, it was a political pull. Oh,
yeah, most things have a political basis to them.
But that was kind of the impression I got. They
said, well, sometimes these people in some areas
are fighting more fires than we are.
Yeah. Well, I don't know. That was just kind of the
impression that I got from it. And I think I got some
of this from Kramer, too. That was his, maybe that
was his great... You see, I can't speak as
authoritatively as they can because this started
during Kramer's administration, but I didn't
know. Well, this whole part of the dissertation is
weak, very weak. It doesn't have the inside
information that I had earlier from the letters
and documents. I don't have motivations. I don't I
don't have successes and failures. I just don't
have it.
It's perhaps because the Forest Service has
become more technical also. In those early years,
they weren't technical. They're technical now.
They're getting that way. And this part of the
dissertation to me is the one I'd like to redo. It's
just so weak. I'm not sure it says anything. It's
kind of a glorification. OK.
294. . Okay,
294. .
Who is they? .